<sect1 id="howto-installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect2 id="howto-installation-dependencies">
<title>Dependencies</title>

<sect3 id="howto-installation-mplayer">
<title>MPlayer</title>

<para>&kplayer; uses <ulink url="http://www.mplayerhq.hu/">&mplayer;</ulink>
as the multimedia backend for playing audio and video files and streams.
This ensures maximum variety of supported types of files and encodings.</para>

<para>You need to have &mplayer; version 1.0-pre8 or later. If there are good
binary packages for your distribution, use those. For example on Debian you
would do</para>

<para><userinput><command>echo</command>
'deb http://debian-multimedia.org unstable main' >>
<filename>/etc/apt/sources.list</filename></userinput></para>

<para><userinput><command>apt-get</command> update</userinput></para>

<para><userinput><command>apt-get</command> install mplayer</userinput></para>

<para>Substitute <literal>unstable</literal> for <literal>stable</literal> or
<literal>testing</literal> as required. The same repository also has a &kplayer;
package, so you can install it as well:</para>

<para><userinput><command>apt-get</command> install kplayer</userinput></para>

<para>As always <ulink
url="http://www.mplayerhq.hu/DOCS/HTML/en/faq.html#faq-compilation">compiling
from source</ulink> is an option.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="howto-installation-xvideo">
<title>X11 and XVideo</title>

<para>X11 is required. The X Server and libraries released by X.org are
recommended. XFree86 may also work.</para>

<para>XVideo extension is recommended. You can check your
<filename>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</filename> or
<filename>/etc/X11/XF86Config-4</filename> file for a line that reads</para>

<para><userinput>Load "extmod"</userinput></para>

<para>This is the line that loads XVideo extension, so make sure it is not
disabled. Also check <filename>/var/log/Xorg.0.log</filename> or
<filename>/var/log/XFree86.0.log</filename> to make sure that XVideo is loaded
without error.</para>

<para>See the <link linkend="howto-configuration">Configuration
micro-HOWTO</link> if you want to use a different video output.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="howto-installation-kde">
<title>Qt and KDE</title>

<para>&kplayer; 0.7 supports &kde; 4.2 and later, so you need to either run a
relatively recent &kde; (recommended) or at least have &kde; libraries and the
corresponding Qt libraries on your system.</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="howto-installation-installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect3 id="howto-installation-binary">
<title>Binary install</title>

<para>The recommended way to install &kplayer; is by using the binary package
built specifically for your distribution.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="howto-installation-source">
<title>Compiling from source</title>

<para>If you cannot install a precompiled binary for any reason, you can compile
&kplayer; yourself. See the <link linkend="howto-compilation">Compilation
Micro-HOWTO</link> for instructions.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="howto-installation-git">
<title>Compiling from Git</title>
<para>If you want to try the latest and greatest &kplayer; features at the risk
of getting some parts of it broken, you can compile the latest
<acronym>Git</acronym> code. See the
<link linkend="howto-compilation">Compilation Micro-HOWTO</link> for
details.</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
