<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command reference</title>

<para>The shortcut key combinations shown in this chapter are the default
ones. They can of course be
<link linkend="configuration-shortcuts">changed</link>.</para>

<sect1 id="menubar">
<title>Menu bar</title>

<para>Note that many menu entries are only enabled when they are applicable
to the file currently loaded in &kplayer;. For example, the items on the
<guimenu>View</guimenu> menu will be disabled when playing audio only
files.</para>

<sect2 id="menu-file">
<title><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Play...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the standard <guilabel>Play files</guilabel> dialog
and lets you choose a file or several files to put on the playlist and start
playing.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Play URL...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the standard <guilabel>Play URL</guilabel> dialog
and lets you type or paste in a <acronym>URL</acronym> to put on the playlist
and start playing. The <acronym>URL</acronym> can be a remote network location,
a local file path, or a &kde; <acronym>I/O</acronym> Slave
<acronym>URL</acronym>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guisubmenu>Play List</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays a submenu listing all playlists and lets you choose one
of them to play.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guisubmenu>Play Recent</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays a submenu listing the most recently played files and
<acronym>URL</acronym>s and lets you choose one to put on the playlist and start
playing.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guisubmenu>Device</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays a submenu with commands for the particular device. Each
device has its own submenu. The submenu label reflects the kind of device it is,
for example <guilabel>TV Device</guilabel> or <guilabel>DVD Device</guilabel>.
When you put a disk in a disk drive, after a few seconds the label will change
to reflect the kind of disk you inserted, for example <guilabel>Audio CD in DVD
Device</guilabel>. The list of commands on the submenu will also be updated
accordingly to include commands applicable to the disk and the tracks it has.
See <link linkend="submenu-device">below</link> for details about the
commands.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Load Subtitles...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the standard <guilabel>Load subtitles</guilabel> dialog
and lets you choose a subtitle file or files to use with the current file or
<acronym>URL</acronym>.</para>
<para>After you click <guibutton>Open</guibutton>, &kplayer;
will start showing subtitles from the first of the files immediately if the
video is already playing, and list the subtitle files on the <link
linkend="submenu-subtitles"><guisubmenu>Subtitles</guisubmenu> submenu</link>
of the <guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu. By default it will also remember the
subtitles you choose in the current file
<link linkend="properties">properties</link>.</para>
<para>This command is available for video files. You can also drag subtitle
files from &konqueror; File Manager and drop them anywhere in &kplayer; except
the <interface>multimedia library</interface> to load and display
them.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Enter;</keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Properties...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the <link linkend="properties">File Properties</link>
dialog that lets you choose many options specific to the currently loaded file.
See the <link linkend="howto-properties">File properties micro-HOWTO</link>
for details.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Saves the playlist and all settings, stops playing and closes
&kplayer;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<sect3 id="submenu-device">
<title><guisubmenu>Device</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Play Disk</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Plays the entire disk. This command is available if the device
is a disk drive.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Play Title</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Plays one title of a video <acronym>DVD</acronym>. This command
is available when &kplayer; detects a video <acronym>DVD</acronym> in a
<acronym>DVD</acronym> drive and finds out the number of titles on it. Each
title on the <acronym>DVD</acronym> has its own command on this
submenu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Play Track</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Plays one track of an audio or video <acronym>CD</acronym>. This
command is available when &kplayer; detects an audio or video
<acronym>CD</acronym> in a disk drive and finds out the number of tracks on it.
Each track on the <acronym>CD</acronym> has its own command on this
submenu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Load Disk</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Detects the kind of disk that is in the disk drive, finds the
number of titles or tracks on the disk and updates the submenu accordingly.
Usually &kplayer; detects this information automatically, but sometimes this
command can be useful to initiate the detection process manually. This command
is available if the device is a disk drive.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Play Channel</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Plays a channel from a tuner device. This command is available
if the device is a tuner device. Each channel on the device has its own command
on this submenu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="menu-view">
<title><guimenu>View</guimenu> menu</title>

<para>Commands on this menu are only available for video files.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Full Screen</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Switches to <link linkend="howto-full-screen">full screen</link>
video display and back to normal mode. Double clicking the video area also
switches between full screen and normal window size.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Zoom In</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Enlarges the video area by one half of the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Zoom Out</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Reduces the video area by one half of the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Zoom to 50&percnt;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the video area to one half of the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Backspace;</keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Zoom to 100&percnt;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the video area to the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Zoom to 150&percnt;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the video area to 150&percnt; of the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Zoom to 200&percnt;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the video area to twice the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Zoom to 250&percnt;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the video area to 250&percnt; of the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Zoom to 300&percnt;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the video area to thrice the original
video size of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Maintain Original Aspect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the option to maintain the original video aspect
ratio of the current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Maintain Current Aspect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the option to maintain the current video aspect
ratio.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Force 4 to 3 Aspect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the option to maintain four to three video aspect
ratio.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Force 16 to 9 Aspect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the option to maintain sixteen to nine video aspect
ratio.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="menu-player">
<title><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
&Enter;
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Starts playback of the current file. If the player has been
paused, this command resumes playback. This command is available when
a file is loaded.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>Space</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Pause</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Pauses or resumes playback of the current file. This command
is available when the player is not idle.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
&Esc;
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Stop</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Stops playback of the current file. This command
is available when the player is not idle.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Down Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Starts playing the next item on the current
playlist.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Up Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Previous</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Starts playing the previous item on the current
playlist.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Loop</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the option to start playing items from the beginning
of the playlist after playing the last item on the playlist.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Shuffle</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the option to play playlist items in a random
order.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<sect3 id="submenu-position">
<title><guisubmenu>Position</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<para>This submenu and the commands it contains are available when playing a
file.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves playback forward by one percent of the time length of the
current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Fast Forward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves playback forward by ten percent of the time length of the
current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Backward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves playback backward by one percent of the time length of the
current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Fast Backward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves playback backward by ten percent of the time length of the
current file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Home</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Back to Start</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves playback to the beginning of the current
file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="submenu-audio">
<title><guisubmenu>Audio</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Track</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Switches to the selected audio track. If the currently loaded
file or stream has more than one audio track, each track will have a command
that allows you to switch to that audio track. The command will be labelled with
the audio track language if it is known. If there is only one audio track, this
command will not be available.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>Down Arrow</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Decrease Volume</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decreases the sound volume.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>Up Arrow</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Increase Volume</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increases the sound volume.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>\</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Mute</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Turns the sound on or off.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>]</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Decrease Delay</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decreases the delay of sound relative to video.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>[</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Increase Delay</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increases the delay of sound relative to video.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="submenu-video">
<title><guisubmenu>Video</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<para>This submenu is only available for video files.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Track</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Switches to the selected video track. If the currently loaded
file or stream has more than one video track, each track will have a command
that allows you to switch to that video track. If there is only one video track,
this command will not be available.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>1</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Decrease Contrast</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decreases the video contrast.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>2</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Increase Contrast</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increases the video contrast.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>3</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Decrease Brightness</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decreases the video brightness.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>4</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Increase Brightness</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increases the video brightness.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>5</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Decrease Hue</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decreases the video hue.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>6</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Increase Hue</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increases the video hue.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>7</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Decrease Saturation</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decreases the video saturation.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>8</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Increase Saturation</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increases the video saturation.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="submenu-subtitles">
<title><guisubmenu>Subtitles</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<para>This menu is only available when a video file has embedded subtitles or
when external subtitles are loaded.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>None</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Stops showing subtitles while playing video.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Track</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Switches to the selected subtitles. If the currently loaded
file or stream has embedded subtitle tracks, each track will have a command
that allows you to switch to that subtitle track. The command will be labelled
with the subtitle track language if it is known. If you load external subtitles,
they will also have a command, labelled with the subtitle file name, that allows
you to switch to the external subtitles.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>,</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Move Down</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves the subtitles down in the video area.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>.</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Move Up</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves the subtitles up in the video area.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>'</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Decrease Delay</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decreases the delay of subtitles relative to video.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>;</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Increase Delay</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increases the delay of subtitles relative to video.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="submenu-advanced">
<title><guisubmenu>Advanced</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<para>If your system is too slow to play a file, &mplayer; can drop some frames
so playback does not slow down. This submenu lets you choose a frame dropping
option. The soft frame dropping option drops frames less aggressively than the
hard one and should not cause playback problems. You should try it when you get
video lagging behind audio, for example because you cannot use an accelerated
video output. The hard option drops frames more aggressively than the soft one
and may sometimes break decoding.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Soft Frame Dropping</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the soft frame dropping option.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Hard Frame Dropping</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the hard frame dropping option.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para>To turn frame dropping off, unselect the currently selected frame dropping
option. The <guilabel>Frame drop</guilabel> option can also be set on the
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> page either globally in <link
linkend="settings-advanced">&kplayer; Settings</link> or for a particular file
in the <link linkend="properties-advanced">File Properties</link>.</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="menu-library">
<title><guimenu>Library</guimenu> menu</title>

<para>The commands on this menu work on the <link
linkend="parts-library">multimedia library</link>. Most of the commands are
available when the library is shown using the <guimenuitem>Show
Library</guimenuitem> command on the <link
linkend="menu-settings"><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</link> or one of the
commands on the <link linkend="submenu-go"><guisubmenu>Go</guisubmenu>
submenu</link>. Other commands become available when you select some items in
the library. For a detailed description of the multimedia library feature see
the <link linkend="howto-library">Multimedia library micro-HOWTO</link>.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Enter</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Puts the selected items on the current playlist and starts
playing them.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Play Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Puts the selected items on the current playlist and plays them
after the currently playing item.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Queue</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Adds the selected items to the current
playlist.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Queue Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Adds the selected items to the current playlist and plays them
after the currently playing item.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Add to</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a submenu with commands that add the current selection to
different locations in the <interface>multimedia library</interface>.
See <link linkend="submenu-add-to">below</link> for details on each available
command.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Add</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a submenu with commands that allow you to add items to the
current folder. See <link linkend="submenu-add">below</link> for details on each
available command.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Selects all items in the current folder.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Move Up</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves the currently selected items up in the
<interface>multimedia library</interface>. This command is available for items
in the <guilabel>Now Playing</guilabel>, <guilabel>Recent</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Playlists</guilabel> sections of the library. You can also move items
around in those sections by clicking and dragging them with the
&LMB;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Move Down</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Moves the currently selected items down in the
<interface>multimedia library</interface>. This command is available for items
in the <guilabel>Now Playing</guilabel>, <guilabel>Recent</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Playlists</guilabel> sections of the library. You can also move items
around in those sections by clicking and dragging them with the
&LMB;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>Delete</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Remove</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Removes the currently selected items from the
<interface>multimedia library</interface>. Note that &kplayer; never deletes any
multimedia files from your system, so this command is not available for files
and directories.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>F2</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Rename</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Starts edit mode for the current item in the
<interface>multimedia library</interface> so that you can change the item
name.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a submenu with commands that start edit mode for the
chosen field of the current item in the <interface>multimedia
library</interface>. Each editable field has its own command on this submenu.
If the field column is not shown, this command will show it. After you are done
editing the field, press &Enter; to apply the changes, or &Tab; or
<keycombo action="simul">&Shift;&Tab;</keycombo> to apply the changes and edit
the next or the previous field, or <keycap>Down Arrow</keycap> or <keycap>Up
Arrow</keycap> to apply the changes and edit the same field of the next or
previous item.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Properties...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the <link linkend="properties">File Properties</link>
dialog for the current item in the <interface>multimedia library</interface>.
This command currently does not apply to folders, but it is available for
devices and optical disks as well as other items. See the
<link linkend="howto-properties">File properties micro-HOWTO</link> for
details.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Columns</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a submenu with commands that show or hide the chosen
column in the <interface>list view</interface> of the <interface>multimedia
library</interface>. Each available column has its own command on this
submenu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Go</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a submenu with commands that let you navigate the
<interface>multimedia library</interface>.
See <link linkend="submenu-go">below</link> for details on each available
command.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<sect3 id="submenu-add-to">
<title><guisubmenu>Add to</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Playlist</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Adds the selected items to the playlist you choose from the
list. Each playlist in the <guilabel>Playlist</guilabel>s section of the library
has its own command on this submenu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>New Playlist...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a dialog allowing you to enter a name for a new playlist
to add to the <guilabel>Playlists</guilabel> section of the
<interface>multimedia library</interface> and adds the selected items to the new
playlist.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Playlists</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Adds the selected items to the <guilabel>Playlists</guilabel>
section of the <interface>multimedia library</interface>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Collection</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Adds the selected items to the <guilabel>Collection</guilabel>
section of the <interface>multimedia library</interface>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="submenu-add">
<title><guisubmenu>Add</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Files...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the standard <guilabel>Add files</guilabel> dialog
and lets you choose a file or several files to add to the current
folder.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>URL...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the standard <guilabel>Add URL</guilabel> dialog
and lets you type or paste in a <acronym>URL</acronym> to add to the current
folder.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Folder...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a dialog allowing you to enter a name for a new subfolder
to add to the current folder.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Playlist...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a dialog allowing you to enter a name for a new playlist
to add to the playlist selected in the <interface>multimedia
library</interface>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Device...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a dialog allowing you to enter a name, type and path for a
new device to add to the <guilabel>Devices</guilabel> section of the
<interface>multimedia library</interface>. Some device types need additional
settings. See the <link linkend="howto-devices">Devices micro-HOWTO</link> for
details.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="submenu-go">
<title><guisubmenu>Go</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Folder</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the selected folder in the <interface>multimedia
library</interface>. If the library window is not shown, this command will show
it. Each folder in the recent history has its own command on this submenu. Each
top level folder also has its own command.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Back</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the previous folder.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the next folder. This command will be available after you
use the <guimenuitem>Back</guimenuitem> command.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Shift;<keycap>Up Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Up</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the parent folder of the selected
folder.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Shift;<keycap>Down Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Down</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the selected folder.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Shift;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>To Origin</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the origin folder of the selected folder. This command is
available when the currently selected folder is linked to an origin folder. For
an explanation of linked folders, see the
<link linkend="howto-library-linked-folders">Multimedia library
micro-HOWTO</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="menu-settings">
<title><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Show Menubar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="parts-menu-bar">menu
bar</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="parts-status-bar">status
bar</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Show Playlist</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the
<link linkend="parts-toolbar-playlist">playlist
toolbar</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Show Library</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the
<link linkend="parts-library">multimedia library</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Show Message Log</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="parts-message-log">message
log</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Main Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="toolbar-main">main
toolbar</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Progress Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="toolbar-progress">progress
toolbar</link>. This command is available when the time length of the current
file is known.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Volume Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="toolbar-volume">volume
toolbar</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Contrast Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="toolbar-contrast">contrast
toolbar</link>. This command is available for video files.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Brightness Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="toolbar-brightness">brightness
toolbar</link>. This command is available for video files.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Hue Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="toolbar-hue">hue
toolbar</link>. This command is available for video files.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Saturation Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows or hides the <link linkend="toolbar-saturation">saturation
toolbar</link>. This command is available for video files.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens a <link linkend="configuration-shortcuts">dialog</link>
that lets you see and change &kplayer;'s shortcut key bindings, or associations
between actions and the corresponding keys or combinations of keys that activate
them. If you change the bindings, make sure not to duplicate an existing
shortcut and also not to use the &Shift; key for your new shortcuts, because the
&Shift; key has a <link linkend="howto-properties">special function</link> in
&kplayer;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens a <link linkend="configuration-toolbars">dialog</link>
that lets you see and change the command buttons available on &kplayer;'s
toolbars.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kplayer;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens a dialog that lets you configure the program, modifying
various aspects of its functionality, user interface and interaction with
&mplayer;. For more information see the <link linkend="settings">Configuration
dialog chapter</link> and the <link linkend="howto-settings">Advanced
configuration micro-HOWTO</link> in this manual.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="menu-help">
<title><guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>&kplayer; Handbook</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens and displays the &kplayer; user manual.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>What's This...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Changes the mouse pointer to a question mark and lets you click
a &kplayer; interface element to get a quick description of its purpose and
functionality.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Report Bug...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens a <link linkend="howto-bug-reporting">help topic</link>
that explains the recommended way to report a bug in
&kplayer;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>About &kplayer;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays some brief information about &kplayer;'s version
number, authors and license agreement.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>About &kde;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows some information about the version of &kde; that
you are running.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="toolbars">
<title>Toolbars</title>

<sect2 id="toolbar-main">
<title><guilabel>Main</guilabel> toolbar</title>

<para>The main toolbar contains the most useful &kplayer; commands and
options.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Play
URL</guimenuitem> buttons invoke the corresponding actions from the <link
linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link> that display dialog
boxes allowing you to play local files or remote
<acronym>URL</acronym>s.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem> button corresponds to the
command on the <link linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link>
that will open the <link linkend="properties">File Properties</link> dialog for
the current file.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>Pause</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Stop</guimenuitem> buttons
correspond to the commands on the
<link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</link> and will
respectively start, pause and stop playback of the current
file.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Zoom In</guimenuitem> and
<guimenuitem>Zoom Out</guimenuitem> buttons invoke the commands on the
<link linkend="menu-view"><guimenu>View</guimenu> menu</link> that respectively
enlarge and reduce the <link linkend="parts-video-area">video area</link> by one
half of the original video size of the current file.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Maintain Aspect</guimenuitem> button corresponds
to the command on the <link linkend="popup-main">general popup menu</link> that
will toggle the option to maintain the video aspect ratio.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Full Screen</guimenuitem> button invokes the
command on the <link linkend="menu-view"><guimenu>View</guimenu> menu</link>
that switches to the <link linkend="howto-full-screen">full screen mode</link>
and back the to normal mode.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Volume</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>Contrast</guimenuitem>, <guimenuitem>Brightness</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>Hue</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Saturation</guimenuitem>
buttons display popup sliders allowing you to adjust those settings. If you
want the slider to stay visible instead of disappearing when it loses the input
focus, use the <link linkend="parts-toolbar-slider">slider toolbars</link>
instead. As usual, if you hold the &Shift; key down, the changes you make to the
settings will be applied only to the current file and stored in its
<link linkend="howto-properties">properties</link>.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="toolbar-playlist">
<title><guilabel>Playlist</guilabel> toolbar</title>

<para>The <link linkend="parts-toolbar-playlist">playlist toolbar</link>
contains the current playlist and the most frequently used playlist commands and
options.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Next</guimenuitem> and
<guimenuitem>Previous</guimenuitem> buttons correspond to the commands
on the <link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu>
menu</link> and will select the next or previous item on the playlist
and start playing it.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>The playlist combo box in the closed state displays the
current playlist item. You can drop down the combo box to see the entire
list and select a different item to load and play.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Loop</guimenuitem> button is the same as the
corresponding command on the
<link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</link> that toggles
the option to continue playing from the top of the current playlist after
playing the last item.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Shuffle</guimenuitem> button is also the same
as the corresponding command on the
<link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</link> that toggles
the option to play items in random order.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="toolbar-progress">
<title><guilabel>Progress</guilabel> and seeking toolbar</title>

<para>The progress and seeking toolbar is available when &kplayer; knows
the time length of the current file. It shows the current playback progress
and lets you seek, which is to say, move the playback position forward or
backward.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>The progress slider reflects the current playback position
relative to the total time length of the current file, and also lets you
seek or change the current position. To seek forward and backward by the
distance between the tick marks on the slider, <mousebutton>left</mousebutton>
click to the right or left of the slider thumb. To seek to a specific point,
<mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> click that point, or
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> click and drag the slider thumb to that
point. If your mouse has a wheel, you can roll it up (away from you) to seek
forward or down (towards you) to seek backward when the mouse pointer is over
the slider. If you hold down the &Ctrl; key on the keyboard when rolling the
wheel, seeking will be faster.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Fast Forward</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Fast
Backward</guimenuitem> buttons corresponds to the commands on the
<link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</link>
that seek forward or backward by the amount which by default is the same
as the distance between slider marks. However, internally they use different
seeking technique (relative as opposed to absolute), and so sometimes may
give different results than <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> clicking the
slider.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="toolbar-volume">
<title><guilabel>Volume</guilabel> toolbar</title>

<para>The volume toolbar allows you to control the sound volume.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>The volume slider allows you to change the sound volume. If you
hold the &Shift; key down, the setting will be applied only to the current file
and stored in its <link linkend="howto-properties">properties</link>. If you
want the slider to always disappear after you have changed the volume, hide this
toolbar and use the popup slider on the <link linkend="toolbar-main">main
toolbar</link> instead.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Show Volume Toolbar</guimenuitem> button
corresponds to the command on the
<link linkend="menu-settings"><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</link>
and will hide the toolbar when clicked.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Mute</guimenuitem> button turns the sound
off and back on, without changing the normal sound volume. It is the same
as the command on the
<link linkend="submenu-audio"><guisubmenu>Audio</guisubmenu> submenu</link>
of the <guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="toolbar-contrast">
<title><guilabel>Contrast</guilabel> toolbar</title>

<para>The contrast toolbar allows you to control the video contrast.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>The contrast slider allows you to change the video contrast. If
you hold the &Shift; key down, the setting will be applied only to the current
file and stored in its <link linkend="howto-properties">properties</link>. If
you want the slider to always disappear after you have changed the contrast,
hide this toolbar and use the popup slider on the
<link linkend="toolbar-main">main toolbar</link> instead.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Show Contrast Toolbar</guimenuitem> button
corresponds to the command on the
<link linkend="menu-settings"><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</link>
and will hide the toolbar when clicked.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="toolbar-brightness">
<title><guilabel>Brightness</guilabel> toolbar</title>

<para>The brightness toolbar allows you to control the video brightness.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>The brightness slider allows you to change the video brightness.
If you hold the &Shift; key down, the setting will be applied only to the
current file and stored in its
<link linkend="howto-properties">properties</link>. If you want the slider to
always disappear after you have changed the brightness, hide this toolbar and
use the popup slider on the <link linkend="toolbar-main">main toolbar</link>
instead.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Show Brightness Toolbar</guimenuitem> button
corresponds to the command on the
<link linkend="menu-settings"><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</link>
and will hide the toolbar when clicked.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="toolbar-hue">
<title><guilabel>Hue</guilabel> toolbar</title>

<para>The hue toolbar allows you to control the video hue.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>The hue slider allows you to change the video hue. If you hold
the &Shift; key down, the setting will be applied only to the current file and
stored in its <link linkend="howto-properties">properties</link>. If you want
the slider to always disappear after you have changed the hue, hide this toolbar
and use the popup slider on the <link linkend="toolbar-main">main toolbar</link>
instead.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Show Hue Toolbar</guimenuitem> button
corresponds to the command on the
<link linkend="menu-settings"><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</link>
and will hide the toolbar when clicked.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="toolbar-saturation">
<title><guilabel>Saturation</guilabel> toolbar</title>

<para>The saturation toolbar allows you to control the video saturation.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>The saturation slider allows you to change the video saturation.
If you hold the &Shift; key down, the setting will be applied only to the
current file and stored in its
<link linkend="howto-properties">properties</link>. If you want the slider to
always disappear after you have changed the saturation, hide this toolbar and
use the popup slider on the <link linkend="toolbar-main">main toolbar</link>
instead.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Show Saturation Toolbar</guimenuitem> button
corresponds to the command on the
<link linkend="menu-settings"><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</link>
and will hide the toolbar when clicked.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="popup-menus">
<title>Popup menus</title>

<para>Like any half decent &kde; program, &kplayer; sports popup menus that
you can get by <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> clicking different
<link linkend="parts">parts</link> of it.</para>

<sect2 id="popup-main">
<title>General popup menu</title>

<para>When you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click the
<link linkend="parts-video-area">video area</link>, the
<link linkend="parts-menu-bar">menu bar</link> or the
<link linkend="parts-status-bar">status bar</link>, you get the general popup
menu that includes the most frequently used &kplayer; commands and
options.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Play
URL</guimenuitem> commands invoke the corresponding actions from the <link
linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link> that display dialog
boxes allowing you to play local files or remote
<acronym>URL</acronym>s.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guisubmenu>Play List</guisubmenu> and <guisubmenu>Play
Recent</guisubmenu> show the submenus from the <link
linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link> that allow you to
play a playlist or a recent item respectively.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem> command corresponds to the
command on the <link linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link>
that will open the <link linkend="properties">File Properties</link> dialog for
the current file.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>Pause</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Stop</guimenuitem> commands
correspond to the actions on the
<link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</link> and will
respectively start, pause and stop playback of the current
file.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Maintain Aspect</guimenuitem> command toggles the
option to maintain the video aspect ratio.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Full Screen</guimenuitem> command invokes the
action on the <link linkend="menu-view"><guimenu>View</guimenu> menu</link>
that switches to the <link linkend="howto-full-screen">full screen mode</link>
and back to the normal mode.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>The commands on the <guisubmenu>Settings</guisubmenu> submenu
are the same as the commands on the
<link linkend="menu-settings"><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</link> and will
show or hide the <link linkend="parts-menu-bar">menu bar</link>,
<link linkend="parts-status-bar">status bar</link>,
<link linkend="toolbar-playlist">playlist toolbar</link>,
<link linkend="parts-library">multimedia library</link>,
<link linkend="parts-message-log">message log</link>,
<link linkend="toolbar-main">main toolbar</link>,
<link linkend="toolbar-progress">progress and seeking toolbar</link>
and <link linkend="toolbar-volume">volume toolbar</link>.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem> command invokes the action on
the <link linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link> that stops
playback, saves all settings and closes &kplayer;.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="popup-playlist">
<title>Playlist popup menu</title>

<para>When you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click the playlist drop down box
on the <link linkend="toolbar-playlist">playlist toolbar</link>, &kplayer;
displays a menu that lists commands that work on the current playlist.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Play...</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Play
URL...</guimenuitem> commands invoke the corresponding actions from the <link
linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link> that display dialog
boxes allowing you to play local files or remote
<acronym>URL</acronym>s.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guisubmenu>Play List</guisubmenu> and <guisubmenu>Play
Recent</guisubmenu> show the submenus from the <link
linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link> that allow you to
play a playlist or a recent item respectively.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guisubmenu>Device</guisubmenu> submenus are also the same as
the ones on the <link linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link>.
Please refer to the <link linkend="submenu-device">description above</link> for
details.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Next</guimenuitem> and
<guimenuitem>Previous</guimenuitem> commands invoke the corresponding actions
from the <link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu>
menu</link> and will select the next or previous item on the playlist
and start playing it.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Loop</guimenuitem> and
<guimenuitem>Shuffle</guimenuitem> commands are also the same as the ones on the
<link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</link> that toggle
the options to continue playing from the top of the current playlist after
playing the last item and to play items in random order
respectively.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem> command opens the current
playlist in the <link linkend="parts-library">multimedia library</link>,
allowing you to edit it.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

<sect3 id="submenu-playlist-add">
<title><guisubmenu>Add</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Files...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the standard <guilabel>Add files</guilabel> dialog
and lets you choose a file or several files to add to the current
playlist.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>URL...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the standard <guilabel>Add URL</guilabel> dialog
and lets you type or paste in a <acronym>URL</acronym> to add to the current
playlist.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="submenu-add-playlist-to">
<title><guisubmenu>Add to</guisubmenu> submenu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Playlist</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Adds the contents of the current playlist to the playlist you
choose from the list. Each playlist in the <guilabel>Playlists</guilabel>
section of the library has its own command on this submenu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Playlists...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a dialog allowing you to enter a name for a new playlist
and saves the current playlist in the <guilabel>Playlists</guilabel> section of
the <interface>multimedia library</interface> under that name.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Collection...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Shows a dialog allowing you to enter a name for a new folder
and saves the current playlist in the <guilabel>Collection</guilabel> section of
the <interface>multimedia library</interface> under that name.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="popup-library">
<title>Library popup menu</title>

<para>When you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click an item in the
<link linkend="parts-library"><interface>multimedia library</interface></link>,
&kplayer; displays a menu that lists commands applicable to that item or to the
currently selected items or to the current folder. The menu is the same as the
<link linkend="menu-library"><guimenu>Library</guimenu> menu</link> on the menu
bar.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="popup-message-log">
<title>Message log popup menu</title>

<para>When you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click the
<link linkend="parts-message-log">message log</link>, &kplayer; displays a menu
that lists commands applicable to the message log.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem> command selects all the
text in the message log.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem> command copies the selected
message log text to the clipboard.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Clear</guimenuitem> command removes all messages
from the message log.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="popup-toolbar">
<title>Toolbar popup menu</title>

<para>When you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click a &kplayer; toolbar, you
get a standard &kde; toolbar popup menu. It contains options that allow you to
change the toolbar orientation, text position and icon size, as well as a
command that opens the <link linkend="configuration-toolbars-dialog">Toolbar
configuration dialog</link>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="popup-title-bar">
<title>Title bar popup menu</title>

<para>When you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click the &kplayer; title bar,
you get a standard &kde; title bar popup menu. You can also get it by
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> clicking the little button in the top left
corner of &kplayer; window or by pressing
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo>. The menu contains
commands that let you maximize, minimize, restore, move and resize the &kplayer;
window, as well as a few options, some of which you may find useful. For
example, the <guimenuitem>Keep Above Others</guimenuitem> option on the
<guisubmenu>Advanced</guisubmenu> submenu lets you keep the &kplayer; window on
top of all other program windows.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="kpart">
<title>KPart</title>

<para>&kplayer; features a KPart, which is an applet that can be embedded into
other programs and used to watch video or play audio. You can configure programs
like &konqueror; File Manager and &kmldonkey; to embed the &kplayer;'s KPart and
play files with it. &konqueror; Web Browser can also be configured to use the
&kplayer; KPart to display multimedia objects embedded in web pages.</para>

<para>You can tell &konqueror; to use &kplayer; for playing multimedia files and
<acronym>URL</acronym>s by going to the <guilabel>File Associations</guilabel>
page either in the &konqueror; configuration dialog or in &kcontrolcenter; and
moving &kplayer; to the top of the list of programs for each media type you want
&kplayer; to play, both on the <guilabel>Program</guilabel> tab and on the
<guilabel>Embedded</guilabel> tab. It is recommended that you choose the option
to <guilabel>Open Separate Program</guilabel>, which will give you a whole lot
more options and better interface when playing multimedia compared to an
embedded KPart. However, when an object is embedded into a web page, &konqueror;
has no choice but to use the KPart. In that situation the best thing is to
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click the multimedia object and select the
<guilabel>Start &kplayer;</guilabel> command described
<link linkend="kpart-popup">below</link>.</para>

<para>Following is a complete list of user interface elements that &kplayer;'s
KPart provides whenever possible. However, when the KPart is embedded into a web
page, only the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click
<link linkend="kpart-popup">popup menu</link> will be available.</para>

<sect2 id="kpart-menu">
<title><guilabel>Player</guilabel> menu</title>

<para>This menu contains the following commands, most of which are the same as
the corresponding commands in the full &kplayer;:</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Play</guilabel>, <guilabel>Pause</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Stop</guilabel>, <guilabel>Forward</guilabel>, <guilabel>Fast
Forward</guilabel>, <guilabel>Backward</guilabel>, <guilabel>Fast
Backward</guilabel> and <guilabel>Back to Start</guilabel> commands from the
<link linkend="menu-player"><guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu</link> of the full
&kplayer;;</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Decrease Volume</guilabel>, <guilabel>Increase
Volume</guilabel> and <guilabel>Mute</guilabel> commands from the
<link linkend="submenu-audio"><guisubmenu>Audio</guisubmenu>
submenu</link> of the <guimenu>Player</guimenu> menu of the full
&kplayer;;</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Maintain Aspect</guilabel> command from the
<link linkend="popup-main">general popup menu</link> of the full
&kplayer;;</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Properties</guilabel> command from the
<link linkend="menu-file"><guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</link> of the full
&kplayer;;</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Start &kplayer;</guilabel> command from the
<link linkend="kpart-popup">KPart popup menu</link> described
below.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kpart-toolbar">
<title>Main toolbar</title>

<para>This toolbar contains <guilabel>Play</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Pause</guilabel>, <guilabel>Stop</guilabel>, <guilabel>Maintain
Aspect</guilabel>, <guilabel>Volume</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Properties</guilabel> buttons which as the same as the ones on the
<link linkend="toolbar-main">main toolbar</link> in the full &kplayer;.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kpart-toolbar-progress">
<title>Progress toolbar</title>

<para>This toolbar is the same as the <link linkend="toolbar-progress">Progress
toolbar</link> in the full &kplayer;.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kpart-toolbar-volume">
<title>Volume toolbar</title>

<para>This toolbar is the same as the <link linkend="toolbar-volume">Volume
toolbar</link> in the full &kplayer;.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kpart-popup">
<title>Popup menu</title>

<para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> clicking the video area of &kplayer;
KPart embedded into another program gives you a popup menu.</para>

<para>The top item on the menu is <guilabel>Start &kplayer;</guilabel> command
that will stop playback, open the full &kplayer;, put the multimedia file or
<acronym>URL</acronym> on the
<link linkend="parts-toolbar-playlist">playlist</link> and start playing it.
It is always recommended that you choose this command, since it will give you
better interface and more options when playing the multimedia.</para>

<para>The popup menu also contains <guilabel>Play</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Pause</guilabel>, <guilabel>Stop</guilabel>, <guilabel>Maintain
Aspect</guilabel> and <guilabel>Properties</guilabel> commands which as the same
as the ones on the <link linkend="popup-main">general popup menu</link> in the
full &kplayer;.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="mouse-wheel">
<title>Mouse wheel</title>

<para>The action of the mouse wheel in &kplayer; depends on where the mouse
cursor is positioned.</para>

<para>If the cursor is positioned over a slider, rolling the mouse wheel
will change the setting that the slider controls, like
<link linkend="toolbar-progress">playback position</link>,
<link linkend="toolbar-volume">sound volume</link>,
<link linkend="toolbar-contrast">video contrast</link> and so on. Rolling the
wheel up (away from you) increases the setting, while rolling it down (towards
you) decreases it. You can hold down the &Ctrl; key on the keyboard when rolling
the wheel to change the setting faster.</para>

<para>Rolling the wheel when the mouse pointer is positioned over a window that
has a scroll bar, like the <link linkend="parts-library">multimedia
library</link> or the <link linkend="parts-message-log">message log</link>, will
scroll the window up or down. Rolling the wheel over the
<link linkend="toolbar-playlist">playlist combo box</link> will likewise scroll
it up or down, switch to a different entry and start playing it.</para>

<para>When the mouse pointer is in the video area, rolling the wheel up (away
from you) will zoom in, that is, enlarge the video area, and rolling the wheel
down (towards you) will zoom out, or reduce the video area. However, if
&kplayer; cannot resize the video area, for example when the window is full
screen or maximized, it will instead seek, or move the playback point, forward
when rolling the wheel up (away from you) or backward when rolling it down
(towards you). In that case you can also hold down the &Ctrl; key on the keyboard
to seek faster.</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>
