<chapter id="howto">
<title>Micro-HOWTOs</title>

<sect1 id="howto-overview">
<title>Overview</title>

<para>This chapter contains lots of useful information covering installation,
configuration and various uses of &kplayer;. Following is a list of the topics
covered.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-installation">Installation
micro-HOWTO</link> describes &kplayer; requirements, dependencies and
installation steps.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-compilation">Compilation micro-HOWTO</link>
gives quick instructions on compiling &kplayer; from source.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-configuration">Basic configuration
micro-HOWTO</link> gives some useful hints for optimal &kplayer;
setup.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-settings">Advanced configuration
micro-HOWTO</link> introduces some of the most useful &kplayer;
settings.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-properties">File properties
micro-HOWTO</link> explains the file properties feature in
detail.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-full-screen">Full screen and maximized
window micro-HOWTO</link> gives some tips on running &kplayer; full screen or
maximized.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-playlist">Playlist micro-HOWTO</link>
describes playlist support in &kplayer;.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-library">Multimedia library
micro-HOWTO</link> explains the multimedia library in detail.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-subtitles">Subtitles micro-HOWTO</link>
gives useful information on playing video with subtitles.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-devices">Devices micro-HOWTO</link>
provides details on how to play <acronym>DVD</acronym>, video
<acronym>CD</acronym>, audio <acronym>CD</acronym>, <acronym>TV</acronym>
and <acronym>DVB</acronym>.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-streams">Online radio and TV
micro-HOWTO</link> gives useful tips for playing online media.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-slaves">&kde; I/O Slaves micro-HOWTO</link>
gives details on playing files through &kde; <acronym>I/O</acronym>
Slaves.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-troubleshooting">Troubleshooting
micro-HOWTO</link> gives solutions for the most common
problems.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-bug-reporting">Bug reporting
micro-HOWTO</link> details the steps to make your bug report really
helpful.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><link linkend="howto-translation">Translation micro-HOWTO</link>
is a quick guide to help &kplayer; translators get going.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

&kplayer-howto-installation;
&kplayer-howto-compilation;
&kplayer-howto-configuration;
&kplayer-howto-settings;
&kplayer-howto-properties;
&kplayer-howto-full-screen;
&kplayer-howto-playlist;
&kplayer-howto-library;
&kplayer-howto-subtitles;
&kplayer-howto-devices;
&kplayer-howto-streams;
&kplayer-howto-slaves;
&kplayer-howto-troubleshooting;
&kplayer-howto-bug-reporting;
&kplayer-howto-translation;

</chapter>
