<sect1 id="howto-translation">
<title>Translation</title>

<sect2 id="howto-translation-interface">
<title>Translating the user interface</title>

<para>If &kplayer; is not yet translated into your language and you want to make
a translation, first find out what is the abbreviated code for your language by
looking in the <ulink url="http://i18n.kde.org/teams/">list of &kde;
languages</ulink> for your language code. For example the code for Portuguese
is <literal>pt</literal>.</para>

<para>Next look at the
<ulink url="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/kplayer/kplayer/po/">list of
existing &kplayer; translations</ulink> to see if the file for your translation
already exists. For example an Italian translation file
<filename>it.po</filename> does exist, which means that someone already did at
least part of the job. If so, download the latest version of the file and see if
it needs some work.</para>

<para>If the file does not exist, download the
<ulink url="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/kplayer/kplayer/po/kplayer.pot?rev=HEAD">latest
<filename>kplayer.pot</filename> file</ulink> and rename it with your language
code and the <literal>.po</literal> extension. For example a Portuguese
translation file will be called <filename>pt.po</filename>. If there already
is a translation to a language that is close to yours, you can use that as a
template instead.</para>

<para><ulink url="http://i18n.kde.org/tools/kbabel/">&kbabel;</ulink> is a great
&kde; program for translating <literal>.po</literal> files. Once you are done,
send your translation to
<email>kplayer dash translations at en dash directo dot net</email>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="howto-translation-manual">
<title>Translating the user manual</title>

<para>Go to the <ulink
url="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/kplayer/kplayer/doc/">&kplayer;
documentation directory</ulink> and look for a subdirectory for your language
code. If you find it, get the latest versions of all <literal>.po</literal>
files from it and see if they have any untranslated text.</para>

<para>If the subdirectory for your language code does not exist, go to the <ulink
url="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/kplayer/kplayer/doc/templates/"><filename>templates</filename>
subdirectory</ulink>, download the latest versions of all
<literal>.pot</literal> files from it, open each one of them in &kbabel;,
translate and save with the <literal>.po</literal> extension.</para>

<para>When you are done translating all the files, send the finished translation
to <email>kplayer dash translations at en dash directo dot net</email>.</para>

<important><para>Do not translate the <literal>.docbook</literal> files
directly. Such translation is very difficult to maintain, and therefore will not
be accepted.</para></important>

</sect2>

</sect1>
