<sect1 id="howto-full-screen">
<title>Full screen and maximized window</title>

<sect2 id="howto-full-screen-mode">
<title>Full screen mode</title>

<para>In the full screen mode the &kplayer; window has no border and no
<link linkend="parts-title-bar">title bar</link>. By default it will also hide
all other windows so the <link linkend="parts-video-area">video area</link> will
cover your entire screen. If you have any &kde; panels, they will also be hidden
until you return to the normal mode.</para>

<para>To watch a movie in full screen in &kplayer; select <guimenuitem>Full
Screen</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu or just hit <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>. To go back to normal display
hit <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo> again or
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click to open the
<link linkend="popup-main">popup menu</link> and unselect the <guimenuitem>Full
Screen</guimenuitem> option. Double clicking the video area also switches
between full screen and normal size. Pressing &Esc; will stop playback and also
return to normal display.</para>

<para>The <guisubmenu>Settings</guisubmenu> submenu of the
<link linkend="popup-main"><mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click menu</link>
lets you show the <link linkend="parts-menu-bar">menu bar</link>,
<link linkend="parts-toolbar-main">toolbars</link>,
<link linkend="parts-library">multimedia library</link>,
<link linkend="parts-message-log">message log</link> and
<link linkend="parts-status-bar">status bar</link> in full screen mode.
&kplayer; will remember your choices and show the same user interface next time
you go to full screen mode.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="howto-maximized-window">
<title>Maximized window</title>

<para>A maximized window covers the entire screen area not used by &kde; panels,
and has a title and borders, as well as all the same user interface as a normal
window. &kplayer; will not try to resize a maximized window automatically. To
maximize the &kplayer; window <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> click the
<guibutton>Maximize</guibutton> button on the right side of the
<link linkend="parts-title-bar">title bar</link> or right click the middle
portion of the title bar to get a <link linkend="popup-title-bar">popup
menu</link> and select the <guimenuitem>Maximize</guimenuitem> command from it.
To go back to normal window size, click the <guibutton>Restore</guibutton>
button or select the <guimenuitem>Maximize</guimenuitem> command again.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="howto-full-screen-mouse-wheel">
<title>Mouse wheel</title>

<para>When the &kplayer; window is full screen or maximized, and the mouse
pointer is in the video area, rolling the mouse wheel will seek, or move the
playback point, forward when rolling the wheel up (away from you) or backward
when rolling it down (towards you). If you hold down the &Ctrl; key on the
keyboard, seeking will be faster.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>
