<sect1 id="howto-devices">
<title>DVD, VCD, audio CD, TV, DVB</title>

<sect2 id="howto-devices-playing">
<title>Playing from devices</title>

<para>You can play <acronym>DVD</acronym> titles by entering a
<acronym>URL</acronym> like <userinput>dvd://1</userinput> into the
<guilabel>Open URL</guilabel> dialog from the <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu in
&kplayer;. The number <userinput>1</userinput> is the title number to play.
Similarly, <userinput>vcd://1</userinput> will play a <acronym>VCD</acronym>,
<acronym>SVCD</acronym> and other <acronym>VCD</acronym> varieties, and
<userinput>cdda://12</userinput> will play the twelfth track of an audio
<acronym>CD</acronym>. Also supported are <userinput>tv://1</userinput> and
<userinput>dvb://channelname</userinput> type <acronym>URL</acronym>s.</para>

<para>If a <acronym>DVB</acronym> channel name has uppercase letters in it,
like <userinput>dvb://RAI Uno</userinput>, then the standard form will not work
in &kde; 3.2 and later, because &kde; libraries have been "fixed" to convert
all host names to lower case without ever asking you. In that case &kplayer;
will insert <userinput>kplayer</userinput> as the host name for you like so:
<userinput>dvb://kplayer/RAI Uno</userinput>. The host name will show up in the
<guilabel>Path or URL</guilabel> field in
<link linkend="properties-general">File Properties</link>, but &kplayer; will
remove it when passing the <acronym>URL</acronym> to
<link linkend="howto-installation-mplayer">&mplayer;</link>. That host name will
also work for <userinput>dvd:</userinput>, <userinput>vcd:</userinput>,
<userinput>cdda:</userinput>, <userinput>cddb:</userinput> and
<userinput>tv:</userinput> <acronym>URL</acronym>s, although only
<userinput>dvb:</userinput> and <userinput>tv:</userinput>
<acronym>URL</acronym>s might actually need it since they can contain letters
in the channel name.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="howto-devices-options">
<title>Setting options</title>

<para>If you need to use a <acronym>DVD</acronym> or <acronym>CD</acronym>
device different from the default, you can add options like
<userinput><option>-dvd-device</option>
<filename>/dev/hdc</filename></userinput> and
<userinput><option>-cdrom-device</option>
<filename>/dev/hdd</filename></userinput> in the <guilabel>Additional command
line parameters</guilabel> box on the <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> page either
globally in <link linkend="settings-advanced">&kplayer; Settings</link> or for
an individual <acronym>URL</acronym> in <link linkend="properties-advanced">File
Properties</link>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="howto-devices-deinterlacing">
<title>Inverse telecine and deinterlacing</title>

<para>Video on <acronym>DVD</acronym> disks is often telecined. The
<literal>pullup</literal> filter does a decent inverse telecine. To use it,
open the <link linkend="properties-advanced">Advanced page</link> of the
<guilabel>File Properties</guilabel> dialog and enter <option>-vf
pullup</option> in the <guilabel>Additional command line arguments</guilabel>
field before playing the video.</para>

<para>Some <acronym>DVD</acronym> disks and many <acronym>TV</acronym> and
<acronym>DVB</acronym> channels are interlaced. There are several deinterlacing
filters in &mplayer;. Each of them has its own advantages and disadvantages, so
try a few of them starting with <option>-vf pp=md</option> and see which one
gives the best results for the particular video you are trying to watch. The
full list is available by running</para>

<para><userinput><command>mplayer</command> <option>-pphelp</option> |
<command>grep</command> <option>deint</option></userinput></para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="howto-devices-deblocking">
<title>Deblocking, deringing, denoising</title>

<para>The <option>-vf</option> option is in charge of video filtering in
&mplayer;. To get the full list of available filters, run</para>

<para><userinput><command>mplayer</command>
<option>-vf help</option></userinput></para>

<para>from the command line. Most of them are described on the
<literal>mplayer(1)</literal> manpage. One of the most useful filters is
<literal>pp</literal>, the postprocessing filter. Among other things it can
smooth blocky <acronym>MPEG</acronym>s using the deblocking filters
<literal>hb</literal> and <literal>vb</literal> or <literal>h1</literal> and
<literal>v1</literal>, usually combined with the deringing filter
<literal>dr</literal> like this: <option>-vf pp=hb/vb/dr</option> or
<option>-vf pp=h1/v1/dr</option>. To get a full list of <literal>pp</literal>
filters, run</para>

<para><userinput><command>mplayer</command>
<option>-pphelp</option></userinput></para>

<para>from the command line. Another useful filter is <literal>hqdn3d</literal>
that does high quality denoising: <option>-vf hqdn3d</option>.</para>

<para>You can combine several filters together and use them on the same device
or file by separating them with a comma without spaces, for example:</para>

<para><option>-vf pullup,pp=h1/v1/dr,hqdn3d</option></para>

<para>Put that into the <guilabel>Additional command line arguments</guilabel>
field on the <link linkend="properties-advanced">Advanced page</link> in
<guilabel>File Properties</guilabel>.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>
